0.409090909091  I cried when I saw The PASSION OF THE CHRIST - how could you not? I sat there and watched a man brutalized for two hours. Everyone around me was crying - it felt like we were all tuned in to the proceedings of a televised execution.  I was a little confused by the time it was all over & as I was leaving the theater, I was even more so: I saw parents walking out with their children.  Jesus Christ's teachings were left in the wings, the significance of his life locked out of the script almost entirely.  Hardly a first impression for young children.  The ONLY things I found at all interesting about the PASSION OF THE CHRIST: the use of the authentic languages from the time period (Latin & Aramaic) and the actors bringing this movie to life.  James Caviezel's performance in Terrence Malick's THE THIN RED LINE was simply mesmerizing, and he used a similar pallet of emotion for his performance here.  I was raised a Roman Catholic - so viewing the Stations of the Cross was nothing new to me.  To suggest this film version of that seasonal meditation is a "masterwork" - simply is absurd.  So what WAS the point of this film, what were we to draw from its brutal imagery?  There was no inspiration in Mel Gibson's film for me, no arc of understanding - only suffering and death.  Which led me to consider their goal may have been to create a vivid emotional experience, intended to lift us out of numbness and inspire reflection on faith to get us through this life: televised warfare, beheadings on the internet, stories of sickness and shootings on the nightly news, etc.  Perhaps, but I don't think so.  A fleeting, knee-jerk reaction with some tears shed on queue, and then those emotions are safely placed back on the shelf until the next time.  Complicity and silence have always gone hand in hand: it's easy to damn this world, condemn what we see as different from our own huddled beliefs; allow selfishness and insincerity to decimate through clouds of frankincense and joyous hymns.  Salvation?  Maybe.      The infamous THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST, directed by Martin Scorsese, is a "masterwork" of filmmaking. The film not only inspires the heart, but also prods the mind.  I could feel the breath of those images, allowing me to enter the world it created and truly feel something more than myself.  It was not an epiphany; it was a fresh view, it was an enlightened dream of another world, yet strangely our own.  The film didn't plague the audience with blood and horrors; it dramatizes the passion and relevance of the story.  I've come to understand and believe Jesus Christ to be among the greatest teachers this world has known, who suffered the tortures of the damned to inspire his vision of peace, determination for truth and humility in us all - ideals that have taken a back seat to robotic, indignant servitude to skewed "moral" interests.    The LAST TEMPTATION was based on the book by Nikos Kazantzakis - from which the filmmakers created a thoughtful, passionate re-examination of one of the greatest stories ever told.  Mr. Scorsese, in his youth, had almost joined the priesthood; but chose to explore and express his passion through the cinema.  I saw no blasphemy in his images - only a powerful film exploring faith in ourselves and the world.  Often cited as trash, garbage and against popular faith - this film truly offers a story of FAITH we can all profit from, regardless of what we believe.       

0.2  This movie was lots of fun. The story was so gritty and affecting. I remember after watching it for the first time, I made my own sword from scrap wood & laid into some mailboxes and windshields.  Ancient Rome burned in my heart.  GLADIATOR charges the blood with electricity. The characters are so compelling, deep and human. The villain, played to perfection by Joaquin Phoenix, was pure brilliance.  Russell Crowe dips his hand into the gritty Earth and produces a hero of uncommon, brutal honesty.  The lions, the vicious cheers of a blood-thirsty crowd...  I give this movie exactly ONE STAR.  The story, even for an epic, was compelling for a grand total of five minutes.  The plot blunders predictably along, creating little or no emotional momentum & absolutely no sense of adventure.  Kids in a sandbox could contrive a better story than this piece of garbage.  About an hour into this vacuum, I just wanted Russell Crowe to kill Commodus so I could get back to my life.    Joaquin Phoenix "vexed" me with his paper thin performance as the twisted, impotent usurper.  Perhaps Phoenix can't be blamed for the job he turned in?  They gave him such a narrow, cardboard role to play - a weak foil to the driven, fertile, masculine Maximus.  There was no descent into madness; something vaguely human that would have at least given some dimension to this silly story.    Ridley Scott created a beautiful film.  The cinematography was masterful - like a crazy European car commercial.  A wild, powerful sports car rolls into the coliseum, everyone stops their torturous acting & begins to feel the fine interiors, check under the hood, blare some music and then comment on the trunk space.  Maybe a quick ride to showcase the vehicle's performance?  A lion could sit on the hood and roar a little bit - an obvious appeal to the grunting desire to identify with virility and power that lurks in all of us.  Oh well.  The mass appeal of this bore was a clear demonstration of the famous quote: "a sucker is born every minute."        

